A glimpse into the future of ID Cyberspace is a complex dimension of both enabling and inhibiting data flows in electronic data networks. Current generation intrusion detection (ID) systems are not technologically advanced enough to create the situational knowledge required to manage these networks. Next generation ID system will fuse data, combining both short-term sensor data with long-term knowledge databases, to create cyberspace situational awareness. This article offers a glimpse into the foggy crystal ball of future ID systems. Before diving into the technical discussion we ask the reader to keep in mind the generic model of a datagram traversing the Internet. Figure 1 illustrates an IP datagram moving in a store-and-forward environment from source to destination; routed based on a destination address with a uncertain source address decrementing the datagram time-to-live (TTL) at every router hop [1]. The datagram is routed through major Internets and IP transit providers. There is striking similarity between the transit of a datagram in the Internet and an airplane through airspace; future network management and air traffic control. At a very high abstract level, the concepts used to monitor objects in airspace apply to monitoring objects in networks. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) divides airspace management into two distinct entities. On the one hand, local controllers guide aircraft into and out of the air space surrounding an airport. Their job is to maintain awareness of the location of all aircraft in their vicinity, ensure proper separation, identify threats to aircraft, and manage the overall safety of passengers. Functionally, this is similar to the role of network controllers who must control the environment within their administrative domains. The network administrator must ensure the proper ports are open and the information is not delayed, the collisions are kept to a minimum, and the integrity of the delivery systems are not compromised. This is naturally similar to the situational awareness required in current generation air traffic control (ATC).
