Searching the Web: General and Scientific Information Access he World Wide Web is revolutionizing the way people access information, and has opened up new possibilities in areas such as digital libraries, general and scientific information dissemination and retrieval, education, commerce, entertainment, government, and health care. The amount of publicly available information on the Web is increasing rapidly [1]. The Web is a gigantic digital library, a searchable 15 billion word encyclopedia [2]. It has stimulated research and development in information retrieval and dissemination, and fostered search engines such as AltaVista. These new developments are not limited to the Web, and can enhance access to virtually all forms of digital libraries. The revolution the Web has brought to information access is not so much due to the availability of information (huge amounts of information has long been available in libraries and elsewhere), but rather the increased efficiency of accessing information, which can make previously impractical tasks practical. There are many avenues for improvement in the efficiency of accessing information on the Web, for example, in the areas of locating and organizing information. This article discusses general and scientific information access on the Web, and many of our comments are applicable to digital libraries in general. The effectiveness of Web search engines is discussed, including results that show that the major search engines cover only a fraction of the ???publicly indexable Web ??? (the part of the Web which is considered for indexing by the major engines, which excludes pages hidden behind search forms, pages with authorization requirements, etc.). Current research into improved searching of the Web is discussed, including new techniques for ranking the relevance of results, and new techniques in metasearch that can improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Web search. The amount of scientific information and the number of electronic journals on the Internet continues to increase. Researchers are increasingly making their work available online. This article also discusses the creation of digital libraries of the scientific literature, incorporating autonomous citation indexing. The autonomous creation of citation indices
