Active Storage for Large-Scale Data Mining and Multimedia The increasing performance and decreasing cost of processors and memory are causing system intelligence to move into peripherals from the CPU. Storage system designers are using this trend toward ???excess ??? compute power to perform more complex processing and optimizations inside storage devices. To date, such optimiza-tions have been at relatively low levels of the stor-age protocol. At the same time, trends in storage density, mechanics, and electronics are eliminat-ing the bottleneck in moving data off the media and putting pressure on interconnects and host processors to move data more efficiently. We pro-pose a system called Active Disks that takes advantage of processing power on individual disk drives to run application-level code. Moving por-tions of an application???s processing to execute directly at disk drives can dramatically reduce data traffic and take advantage of the storage par-allelism already present in large systems today. We discuss several types of applications that would benefit from this capability with a focus on the areas of database, data mining, and multime-dia. We develop an analytical model of the speed-ups possible for scan-intensive applications in an Active Disk system. We also experiment with a prototype Active Disk system using relatively low-powered processors in comparison to a data-base server system with a single, fast processor. Our experiments validate the intuition in our model and demonstrate speedups of 2x on 10 disks across four scan-based applications. The model promises linear speedups in disk arrays of hundreds of disks, provided the application data is large enough. Thts research was sponsored by DARPAflTO through Order D306, and issued by Indian Head Division, NSWC under contract NOO174-96-0002. Additional support was prowded by NSF under grants EEC-94-02384 and IRI-9625428 and NSF, ARPA and NASA under NSF Agreement IRI-9411299. We are also Indebted to generous contributions from the member companies of the Parallel Data Consortium: Hewlett-
